The feeling of guilt is so heavy.
Can I ever be part of Jehovah's organization
and feel good?
Can I feel clean?
Because the guilt made me feel like I wasn't.
I would pray to Jehovah and just plead with him.
I would journal how I was feeling,
and then I would do the personal study.
And when I was having a bad day, a real down day,
I would look and see, oh yeah, this is how Jehovah feels.
I felt a change in me when I studied about the ransom.
Jesus died for everyone, even people who don't serve him.
Then he died for me too.
Feeling guilty can make you want to isolate,
but I knew that was dangerous,
because there's no growth, there's no encouragement for anyone.
Reaching out and associating with the brothers and sisters
really helped me not be so self-consumed.
When I was able to comment again at meetings,
I started out small by saying like one word answers,
and then maybe a longer answer using a scripture.
It gave me something to be proud of.
Going in the ministry really helped me,
because I was talking about the wonderful hope
of the future that Jehovah gives,
and it was building my faith along with helping others.
When you help others, it makes you happy.
When I look back from where I was,
feeling so guilty to where I am now,
I really see the wisdom in Jehovah and his discipline,
and it makes me feel proud.
I'm very happy.